The simplest boundary you can detect is a line,
and more complex boundaries are often made up of several lines.
For example, in document or photo scanning,
documents are typically rectangular,
and so their boundary can be thought of as four lines placed together.
And when you do edge detection,
you'll find that edges when pieced together form longer line segments and shapes.
We can think of representing any line as a function of space.
In image space, the equation that represents a line is y=m x + b,
where m is the slope of the line and B is how far it shifted up or down.
And here M_0 and B_0 are just specific constant values.
A useful transformation is moving
this line representation from image space to Hough space,
also called parameter space.
The Hough transform converts data points from image space to Hough space,
and represents a line in the simplest way.
As a point at the coordinate m_0 b_0,
which are the same M and B from the line equation y=m x + b.
Multiple lines in image space can be
represented by multiple m and b coordinates in Hough space.
And patterns in Hough space can help us identify lines or other shapes.
You can think about this the other way round too.
For example, look at these two lines in Hough space that intersect at the point m_0, b_0.
What do you think this intersection point looks like in image space?
It's the line with the equation y = m_0 x + b_0.
And if we have a line made of mini segments or
points close to the same line equation in image space,
this turns into many intersecting lines in Hough space.
Imagine this line as part of an edge detected
image where a line just has some small discontinuities in it.
Our strategy then for finding continuous lines in
an image is to look at intersection points in Hough space.
This is a simplified example,
and you may have thought about the case of a line straight up and
down which technically has an infinite slope.
So a better way to transform image space
is by turning Hough space into polar coordinates.
So instead of m and b, we have rho,
which is the distance of the line from the origin and theta,
which is the angle from the horizontal axis.
Now, a fragmented line or points that fall in a line can be
identified in Hough space as the intersection of sinusoids.
Now, let's test your knowledge of Hough space then walk
through how to use this transform to identify lines.